About the job
At GEICO, we offer a rewarding career where your ambitions are met with endless possibilities. 

Every day we honor our iconic brand by offering quality coverage to millions of customers and being there when they need us most. We thrive through relentless innovation to exceed our customers’ expectations while making a real impact for our company through our shared purpose. 

When you join our company, we want you to feel valued, supported and proud to work here. That’s why we offer The GEICO Pledge: Great Company, Great Culture, Great Rewards and Great Careers.

At GEICO, we offer a rewarding career where your ambitions are met with endless possibilities. 

Every day we honor our iconic brand by offering quality coverage to millions of customers and being there when they need us most. We thrive through relentless innovation to exceed our customers’ expectations while making a real impact for our company through our shared purpose. 

When you join our company, we want you to feel valued, supported, and proud to work here. That’s why we offer The GEICO Pledge: Great Company, Great Culture, Great Rewards and Great Careers.

 At GEICO, Research and Development (R&D) is fundamental to our business. Complex analysis underlies every major decision for our research and development and is an essential component of our unique strategic vision. Analytics have and continue to be GEICO’s hallmark in the competitive auto insurance industry. 

Working out of our Chevy Chase, MD office, as a R&D Analyst, your job duties will include creating and supporting multiple types of insurance products, assisting different business departments including Underwriting (UW), Claims, Marketing and Advertising to achieve their business goals, interacting with commercial grade database in cloud or local, generating large-scale data and translating it into business values. 

You will perform data exploration and R&D research independently and collaboratively, work with cross-functional business and technical teams on business and analytical innovation and contribute to project-related communication. 

You will be part of a team that is focused on innovation in the insurance industry:  Trying new modeling techniques, deriving new metrics, and tackling complex questions that the company has never tried to answer before.

General Requirements: 

  Proficient in R (Python will be a plus) 
SAS SQL knowledge 
Cloud database knowledge 
Proficient in Excel v-look-up, pivot tables, charts, and graphing 
Ability to analyze data using statistical, mathematical or data mining methods 
Knowledge of insurance rating products and principles 
Knowledge of Claims, UW, Marketing or Agent 
Experience in process control and project management 

 

Additional Requirements: (Either) 

R&D Analyst II: 

Master's degree or higher in Statistics, Mathematics, Data Science, Economics, Operation Research or related quantitative and analytics fields. 

R&D Analyst III: 

PhD degree in Statistics, Mathematics, Data Science, Economics, Operation Research or related quantitative and analytics fields. 
In lieu of PhD degree:  Master’s degree in Statistics, Mathematics, Data Science, Economics, Operation Research or related quantitative / analytics fields, and a minimum of 2 years of analytical experience. 

Annual Salary

$75,000.00 - $160,000.00

The above annual salary range is a general guideline. Multiple factors are taken into consideration to arrive at the final hourly rate/ annual salary to be offered to the selected candidate. Factors include, but are not limited to, the scope and responsibilities of the role, the selected candidate’s work experience, education and training, the work location as well as market and business considerations.

GEICO will consider sponsoring a new qualified applicant for employment authorization for this position.

The GEICO Pledge

Great Company: At GEICO, we help our customers through life’s twists and turns. Our mission is to protect people when they need it most and we’re constantly evolving to stay ahead of their needs.

We’re an iconic brand that thrives on innovation, exceeding our customers’ expectations and enabling our collective success. From day one, you’ll take on exciting challenges that help you grow and collaborate with dynamic teams who want to make a positive impact on people’s lives.

Great Careers: We offer a career where you can learn, grow, and thrive through personalized development programs, created with your career – and your potential – in mind. You’ll have access to industry leading training, certification assistance, career mentorship and coaching with supportive leaders at all levels.

Great Culture: We foster an inclusive culture of shared success, rooted in integrity, a bias for action and a winning mindset. Grounded by our core values, we have an an established culture of caring, inclusion, and belonging, that values different perspectives. Our teams are led by dynamic, multi-faceted teams led by supportive leaders, driven by performance excellence and unified under a shared purpose.

As part of our culture, we also offer employee engagement and recognition programs that reward the positive impact our work makes on the lives of our customers.

Great Rewards: We offer compensation and benefits built to enhance your physical well-being, mental and emotional health and financial future.

Comprehensive Total Rewards program that offers personalized coverage tailor-made for you and your family’s overall well-being.
Financial benefits including market-competitive compensation; a 401K savings plan vested from day one that offers a 6% match; performance and recognition-based incentives; and tuition assistance.
Access to additional benefits like mental healthcare as well as fertility and adoption assistance.
Supports flexibility- We provide workplace flexibility as well as our GEICO Flex program, which offers the ability to work from anywhere in the US for up to four weeks per year.

The equal employment opportunity policy of the GEICO Companies provides for a fair and equal employment opportunity for all associates and job applicants regardless of race, color, religious creed, national origin, ancestry, age, gender, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital status, familial status, disability or genetic information, in compliance with applicable federal, state and local law. GEICO hires and promotes individuals solely on the basis of their qualifications for the job to be filled.

GEICO reasonably accommodates qualified individuals with disabilities to enable them to receive equal employment opportunity and/or perform the essential functions of the job, unless the accommodation would impose an undue hardship to the Company. This applies to all applicants and associates. GEICO also provides a work environment in which each associate is able to be productive and work to the best of their ability. We do not condone or tolerate an atmosphere of intimidation or harassment. We expect and require the cooperation of all associates in maintaining an atmosphere free from discrimination and harassment with mutual respect by and for all associates and applicants.